After spending 31 years in Pensacola, Florida, we moved out to California and took First Baptist Church of Santa Maria.
I knew a couple of people on staff here that had visited me and knew their family.
Matter of fact, pastored some of their parents in Pensacola.
but really didn't know much about Lancaster Baptist Church or West Coast Baptist College.
Interesting enough though, my first year as pastor in Santa Maria, I began to hear from students and different individuals a little bit more about Lancaster Baptist and Pastor Chapel.
I will tell you of all the pastors
Pastor Tim Rasmussen at Faith Baptist and Pastor Paul Chappell were the two people, first of all, that reached out to me.
I've never forgotten that and always have appreciated that.
Pastor Chappell didn't know me at all, invited me down for a lunch to visit the college.
I was extremely impressed.
But I remember in those first formative days learning about Lancaster Baptist, you did something here that I had never done in my pastor.
And that was have a theme for the year.
And I kind of really liked the idea.
And so we started doing it.
I have to tell you, as often as the case with Jim Jettler, sometimes I start something before I know why I'm doing what I started.
And it was kind of that case with the vision or with the theme, I should say.
And so we started doing themes because I thought that was a cool idea.
And I realized very quickly that a theme produces direction of the church.
I understood after just a month or so, it produces unity.
And I remember from that first night of giving that theme at First Baptist of Santa Maria, it gives great inspiration as well.
And there are probably several other reasons for a theme, but the three that I have found the most is that it is for direction, it is for unity, and it's for inspiration.
And I have found that to be very true in my seven years at Santa Maria, and then coming here.
I see that the theme kind of gives us the direction, it kind of brings us together in unity, and it also gives us our inspiration throughout the course of the year.
Now, if you're thinking about what I just said, you said, really, Phil, do you know what you just gave?
I said, I know exactly what I just gave.
You just gave DUI.
That's exactly right.
What does DUI stand for?
driving under the influence.
Bible says, be not drunk with wine whereas in excess, but be filled with the spirit.
We are supposed to be driven under the influence of the Holy Spirit.
And I think our theme actually causes us to drive in the direction with the unity and the inspiration that God has for us.
I have thoroughly enjoyed every one of them.
I think my first was launch out, and that was important for the Shetler family as we launched out to come here.
But each one of them, I love the one I will build, especially the year that we built the Walter Center, but I will build my church, and every one of the themes renew, and every one of them have just really meant a lot to me.
But I have to tell you, I think one of the greatest sanctification principles in the entire Bible is alive in Christ.
And this year, the theme has meant a lot to me personally.
And I think that was one of the goals that Pastor had.
And I want to take a moment and thank our Pastor for his vision, the direction that he gives.
I do not know, and I've said this before publicly, many times all over the country as well as in the behind this pulpit.
I do not know of another man in our movement, in our faith, in our beliefs that cast a vision better than our pastor, pastor, chapel.
And I think one of the reasons is folks, he believes the vision that he's given to us that that's the direction that the Lord wants us to go.
And I think that's going to be extremely true for this year, but it was true for this past year.
And I think one of his goals was that Christ would become preeminent.
and that we would understand.
I think there's another thing that he didn't ever verbally say it to me, and I don't know through the messages maybe, but just the idea that our Christ is alive.
Now I praise the Lord for the death of Christ.
It paid the sin of Jim Shetler's penalty of his sin.
But I am telling you, I stand before you tonight in my faith
because of the resurrection of Jesus Christ.
It is the greatest truth of human history that the Son of God came to this earth, yes, that He died, praise God, but that He rose again.
And it is that resurrection that we have.
I love the theme, alive in Christ.
I'd like to have you take your Bibles and turn interesting enough as we look back over the year to the Book of Joshua for just a moment.
I have a little acrostic tonight and I use the word alive, A-L-I-V-E. And I wanna give you five takeaways from this year that the Lord has given to me.
But in doing that, I wanted to share with you just something that I think is just so important about the truth that we took as our theme, alive in Christ this year.
The Old Testament,
is the photo album of the New Testament doctrine.
So any great doctrine found in the New Testament can be pictured in some type of typology and some kind of story form in the Old Testament.
Alive in Christ and our victorious Christian life can be found in the book of Joshua and specifically them crossing the Jordan River.
And for just a moment,
I tell you, the three greatest days of all of human history is number one, Christmas, which represents God with us.
And the second great day of all human history is Calvary.
That was God for us.
And then the third great day of human history is the day you realize, recognize and receive
Jesus Christ is your Savior, and that is God in us.
And basically, all of human history is those three days.
God with us, that was Christmas.
God for us, that was Calvary.
and the day you got saved would be the third most important day of human history, and that is God in us.
Well, alive in Christ is that truth of our sanctification and what we have in the Lord Jesus Christ.
I think this is pictured by Israel crossing the Jordan River.
Matter of fact, all of Israel's ancient history can be summed up basically
by them crossing two bodies of water.
They cross the Red Sea as a picture of their salvation, and they cross the Jordan River as a picture of their sanctification.
And basically that is all of Israel's ancient history is crossing two bodies of water.
The similarities are amazing, and yet there are some specific differences.
In my class on Joshua,
All of my students learn very quickly that what the land was to Israel, Jesus Christ is to us.
And that's the key that unlocks the book of Joshua for us.
So everything that the land was to the people of Israel, Jesus Christ is to us.
And he is not our promised land, he is our promised Messiah and the relationship that we have.
And really it's all just a picture.
Now crossing Jordan is very interesting.
Jordan is a picture of death.
Now, many times, and I know I enjoy some of those songs at the funerals when they talk about crossing over Jordan and going to heaven.
The promised land is not a picture of heaven, and Jordan is not a picture of our physical death.
Crossing Jordan is a picture of our spiritual death.
Again, my students in my class will tell you, and they knew it on their final exam as well as other tests throughout the course of the semester, that the Jordan River was Galatians 220.
I am crucified with Christ.
Them crossing the Jordan River was their death to their selves.
They were saved out of the Red Sea, picture of salvation.
But they did not immediately live the victorious life.
Matter of fact, they did with what many of us have done.
They wandered.
Now, I wandered.
I trusted Christ when I was 12 years of age.
But it wasn't really until I was 19 years of age as a sophomore in college under the preaching of Jerry Savinsky that I surrendered and died to myself.
I will tell you, there's been many deaths since then.
A living sacrifice tends to crawl off the altar, but I will share this with you.
I believe my sophomore year in my college, I finally came to a point where it's not gonna be me.
I am crucified with Christ.
Again, for the third time, and I believe the last time, in my Joshua class, on the day that we teach this, I have an invitation in my class.
in all the years that I've taught the classes without an exception.
Many college students get out of their seats and get on their knees and they realize that I've never died to myself.
I've never had that day.
I am crucified with Christ and I understand that I'm dead to sin.
And now I'm ready to live the victorious Christian life.
I believe that's what alive in Christ has to do with.
In Joshua chapter three and verse number one, we see Joshua rose early in the morning.
Three kinds of days in our life, building days, battling days and banner days.
This is a banner day for the people of Israel.
For now, Israel is going to finally enter after 400 years of bondage, suffering and affliction.
They are going to finally enter into the promise of their rest.
the promised land.
By the way, that land had battles to it.
That land even had some defeats in it.
They were defeated by NAI and they had different battles, seven different nations that they had to conquer.
Joshua rose early in the morning and they removed from Shittam and came to Jordan, a picture of their death.
He and all the children of Israel enlarged there before they passed over.
Now they were already saved.
They had already experienced the salvation out of bondage of Egypt, but they had wandered for 40 years.
They were at this point of many years before, but because of the hardening of their heart, they did not believe, and faith is going to be a key takeaway from alive in Christ this year, and they did not trust and believe God could give them victory over the giants that awaited them in the Promised Land.
And it came to pass after three days that the officers went through the host and they commanded the people saying, when you see the ark of the covenant of the Lord, your God, representing His presence in their life.
And the priests and the Levites bearing it, then ye shall remove from your place and go after it.
Once you see, and I believe for us, that Christ is alive, it's time to move out.
Yet there shall be a space between you and it that so everyone could see it.
It's probably about a half mile away from the rest of the people.
About 2,000 cupits by measure come not near onto it that you may know the way by which you must go.
For ye have not passed this way heretofore.
You've never gotten to the promised land.
Oh, you were saved out of Egypt.
But you have never experienced the victorious Christian life, which you're about to do.
The theme that Lancaster Baptist Church had for 2019 is a theme that we must continue on with.
And that is the theme that we are alive in Christ and that we now have this victory that's already been given to us.
We have to now claim it.
Then we look very quickly at verses 14 through 17, and I'll have a word of prayer, and it came to pass.
When the people removed from their tents to pass over Jordan, and the priests bearing the ark of the covenant before the people, and as they that bear the ark were come onto Jordan, and the feet of the priests that bear the ark were dipped into the brim of the water for Jordan overfloweth all his banks all the time of the harvest.
I thought that was interesting.
They crossed at the time that no one would dare think about crossing the Jordan, that the waters which came down from above stood and rose up upon a heap very far from the city Adam that is beside Xeritan.
And those that came down toward the sea of the plain, even the salt sea, failed and were cut off.
And the people passed over right against
Jericho.
Their location, they're going to call this place Gilgal because that's where the Passover will be started again.
Manna will cease and they will have the circumcision of the young men that had not been circumcised for 40 years while they were in the wilderness.
And God will roll away the shame that he had.
And I think this is really interesting.
Gilgal means to roll away and they
They rolled away the shame and the reproach that God had towards Israel, not just the shame of Egypt.
And what that means is the Egyptians were saying, you got got you out of Egypt, but he couldn't even get you to the promised land.
And for 40 years, Israel lived in shame.
And who took that shame?
They're God.
I just tell you this really quickly.
I trusted Christ when I was 12.
I truly believe I did.
But if you would have known me at 15, 16, or 17, you would never have thought that I was a believer in Jesus Christ and a follower of Christ.
If you would have known me at 14, my language betrayed what I was in my heart.
I was ashamed to Jesus Christ in my teen years.
Maybe that's one of the reasons why I do have such a burden for teens.
Because from 12 to 18, there was nothing in my life that would indicate that I was a child of God.
God was ashamed of Jim Shetler when he was 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 years of age.
It wasn't until I crossed the Jordan and finally died to myself and started to experience the victorious Christian life at age 19, six, seven years into my salvation.
that I really realized what my whole life was all about, alive in Christ.
And I tell ya, they go to Gilgal and God finally rolls away the shame because now they're gonna begin to live the way that God had designed.
Our theme this year is nothing else but the epitaph, the goal, everything,
of our Christian life.
We are alive in Christ, verse 17, and I'll pray.
And the priests that bear the ark of the covenant of the Lord stood firm on the dry ground in the midst of Jordan.
And all the Israelites passed over on dry ground until all the people were passed clean over Jordan.
Father, thank you Lord for this year.
Thank you for the victories that we've seen in our church.
We come Lord in this last week of December.
thanking you, Lord, for a church, for a church staff.
Father, I think of Brother Rule, Brother Williams, Brother Firsto.
Lord, I just thank you for the church staff that you've given to us, all those that work in this church.
Father, I thank you for all the volunteers.
What a year we've had.
Father, whether it was VBS or whether it was spiritual leadership conference or whether it was incredible
open house or whatever we did, Lord, had your touch upon it.
And we thank you for the souls that will now go to heaven because of the ministry and the working of this church.
Thank you for the growth, the discipleship through continue in many other mentoring ways.
There is so much to be thankful for, but it is all because we have been alive in Jesus Christ.
Tonight, I take more than anything else.
Thank you for our pastor.
Be with him in this time that he's away.
But there is nothing that we are more thankful for than an empty tomb in a risen Savior.
Father, we have life and that life is unlike the Hindus.
We have life in a personal relationship with Christ, which is unlike the Muslim faith.
There is no Mormon or Jehovah's Witness that has what we have.
We don't say that in pride.
We humbly say thank you that we are alive in one who is our Savior who is alive.
Thank you Father for the theme of this year.
And whatever it is that Pastor guides us into in 2020, may we not leave alive in Christ behind.
but may it be our faithful friend of truth throughout this coming year as well.
Thank you, Lord, for our Savior and your Son, Jesus Christ, who rose from the grave.
We pray these things in the name of our risen Savior, Jesus Christ.
And God's people said, Romans chapter six is where the year began.
And Pastor did a masterful job in walking through this chapter.
We had many messages about Romans chapter six and rightly so.
What shall we say then?
Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound God for bread?
How shall we that are dead to sin live any longer therein?
No, he not that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ.
were baptized into his death.
Therefore, we are buried with him by baptism into death, that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so, we also should walk in newness of life.
For if we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection.
Knowing this, that was a key word this year, knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin.
For he that is dead is freed from sin.
I am crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me.
Now, if we be dead with Christ,
we believe that we shall also live with him.
Knowing, here we are again, the knowing, that Christ being raised from the dead, death, dieth no more, death, no more dominion over him.
For in that he died, he died on to sin once, but in that he lived it, he lived on to God.
This was a verse
that really spoke to me in 2019.
Likewise, everyone together, what's the next word?
Likewise, reckon.
You also yourselves to be dead indeed on the sin, but alive onto God through Jesus Christ our Lord.
There were three key words in Romans chapter six.
We didn't read the third one and that was yield.
There was no reckon and yield.
And for my A, I use the word action.
For this was a key word in understanding how to be alive in Christ.
Knowing something, believing it and knowing it is not necessarily doing it.
This year, what spoke to my heart as a takeaway was the word reckon.
And reckon having the idea
that there has to be a step of action.
So we know these things positionally in Christ, but alive in Christ means nothing until we take our step of faith.
Reckon is that step of faith.
Reckon is that application.
Reckon is the conclusion of the calculation that we have figured out, hey, we're dead to sin.
We figured this out, we've calculated this, and the conclusion, which is exactly what the word reckon means, is to conclude.
The conclusion then demands a step of faith.
That word reckon is a takeaway from this year that we must take with us.
There's got to be an action step to what we say we believe.
To walk around and to have a little pin on our lapel and says alive in Christ and to have things up and to have it in the media and to have it on all of our papers and all of our material that we produce doesn't do anything.
There has to be an action step.
You've got to not only believe you've got to reckon and you've got to take a step.
Notice what it says.
Likewise, reckon ye also yourselves to be dead.
Indeed, I'm just sinned.
You take a step.
I don't gossip anymore.
Why?
Because I'm dead to that.
I don't look at pornography anymore.
Why not?
because I'm dead to that.
I believe that Christ is alive in me.
I have victory now, and because of that victory, I move forward.
Now, these five words really come together, so I got to move quickly here.
Action, I think, was important, and then an L was life.
I am crucified with Christ.
Nevertheless, I live.
And that's what we offer the world
We have the only faith that the world knows that has life.
We have life of it even after death, which is amazing.
I was asked several years ago, by a pastor I admire very much, and he asked me, he said, Jim, I have a question for you.
Would you rather do a wedding or a funeral?
Now this was probably about 15 years ago I was asked this.
He said, would you rather do a wedding or a funeral?
Well, I started to laugh a lot.
And I said, that's funny.
And he said, what would you rather do?
I said, well, I'd rather do a wedding than a funeral.
The pastor looked at me and he said this.
He said, not me, Jim.
I'd rather do the funeral of a believer than do a wedding of two individuals that are believers.
I said, why?
He did kind of give a comical answer.
He said, weddings are the most unreal thing on planet Earth.
And he said, funerals are the most real thing on planet Earth.
And he said this.
He said, the reason why I'd rather do a funeral than a wedding is because the funeral represents the real hope of the Christian.
Unlike any other religion, we have it.
Well, that so, so burned me.
I began to think about, and I tell you what I love to do now, I love to do the gravesite of a believer in Christ, and that we plant the body in the ground, knowing that it's coming up out of that ground one day, and that resurrection, that life that we now have, alive in Christ
was such a great theme in a world that is so dead.
We had the answer and have the answer in a live in Christ.
I love action that had brought to me my takeaway, but life, that Christianity is the faith of life.
We have it for eternal life and we have it for abundant life on this earth.
Now, I is a key letter.
And it's the key to probably brings everything together in this whole theme this year.
And I stands for identification.
We heard a lot of messages on the Holy Spirit.
And if you look at your Romans chapter six passage, instead of the word baptism for just a moment, insert the word identify or identification.
Notice with me, if you would, as we begin to read again, Romans six, verse three.
Know ye not that so many of us as were
identified into Jesus Christ were identified into His death.
Therefore, we are buried with Him by identification into death.
That like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life.
Look at this.
For if we have been planted together in the likeness of His death, we shall also be in the likeness
of his resurrection, knowing this, that our old man is crucified.
How does all this occur?
It occurs by identification.
Paul wasn't lying when he said, I am crucified with Christ.
He was saying, I'm identified.
Now, how were we identified?
And that's by the work of the Holy Spirit.
And this year, I think some of the best messages Pastor preached all year for me.
were probably the messages on the Holy Spirit.
And understanding that our identification with Christ is through this one who lives inside of us, the Holy Spirit.
And it is through identification.
I always like to give the little illustration, and I didn't get it.
I don't know who taught it to me, but it's not my own.
But before I baptized anybody, I would always use the little wedding ring.
Because I think water baptism, I think someone's getting baptized tonight.
publicly identifying in water baptism with what Christ is did.
Nobody gets saved in that tank of water over there, but they are making a public identification with the death, burial, and resurrection.
Kind of like my wedding ring.
If I take my wedding ring off, which I can't do tonight, but if I take my wedding ring off, I'm still married to my wife.
If I never had worn a wedding ring, I could still have been married.
then why, Jim, do you wear a wedding ring to identify myself as a married man?
You look at the wedding ring, by the way, could a person wear a wedding ring and not be married?
Yes.
So it is the identification of that.
It doesn't mean that a person can get dunked in the tank of water.
It doesn't mean that they're saved.
But it is a picture of identification this year.
The key to alive in Christ is our identification with Christ.
I'm alive with Him.
V stood for victory.
We have now already won and we are already in a position of victory.
Our job now is to claim the victory.
Again, we go back to the book of Joshua.
God had already promised it's yours.
Claim it, Joshua.
Take it.
It's already been given you.
This year, as we so needed, we saw the victory that we have in Jesus Christ.
I had the privilege to preach, I think, three Sunday mornings this year that Pastor allowed me to, and he asked me specifically to speak on a live in Christ.
And one of the areas had to do with victory.
And so often is the case when you study for a message or you preach a message, it speaks more to you than it does usually to the people you preach to.
And that morning it did, and there was a concept that I wanted to get across.
And that week, I think the Lord, I don't know, showed me something, I don't know, but it has really helped me and it's a takeaway for me.
Probably no one in here will remember this, but I started that one of the messages with an illustration
If we were able to take every can in bottle of beer and be able to dispose of every can in bottle of beer, and if we were able to take every can in bottle of liquor in the entire planet Earth and destroy it and get rid of it, would that take care of the alcohol problem on our planet?
No, because we didn't destroy the factories that produce it.
So even though we just went around and took every can of beer, every bottle of beer, every can and bottle of alcohol in the whole world, and we destroyed every one of it, we would still have an alcohol problem on planet Earth.
Why?
Because there's still factories producing it.
And the point is this.
You'll never have victory over sin by just dealing with the results of that sin.
You gotta get to the very basis of it, and that's being alive in Christ.
Seeing who you are in Jesus Christ as your victory over any sin.
You don't take time to, if you're struggling with lust,
Well, don't take time.
God, I have a problem with pornography.
I have a problem with lust.
And Lord, I got to have victory over this.
And all I do is think about it all the time.
We'll stop thinking about it.
The victory's already been given to you.
Live as if you are victorious over it already.
We deal with the cans and the bottles of sin in our life instead of dealing with the factory of where it's produced.
We've got to find ourselves dead to sin and alive to Christ.
This year,
That was life-changing for me and greatly helped.
And then finally, and it really is, kind of sums up the ALIV, and that's experiential, not just doctrinal.
I would imagine in January, when you heard the phrase, alive in Christ, you weren't like, well, what?
It's kind of theoretical.
It's kind of like, what in the world?
This is gonna be a real doctrinal year.
Well, I think our pastor had a goal, and I think he accomplished it.
that made a phrase alive in Christ not be something that is just doctrinal, but something that is experiential, something that we experience and that we live by.
Now I will tell you the greatest illustration that I remember of the whole year.
It's interesting, it wasn't from pastor.
It was from Dean Miller.
And he was here, I believe it was the Sunday that we dedicated the library to the Lord.
And he had a really short time.
I've teased him since then.
I think it was the greatest message I've ever heard of preach.
He only preached 26 minutes, I think.
But I think it was the greatest message.
I said, Dean Miller, take it any way you want.
But I'm just telling you, it was the greatest message.
And he did a phenomenal job of explaining the life in Christ.
And some of you might remember, he closed with an illustration that sometimes you hear something and you go like, that just was amazing.
that he got as a gift.
I think it was from his daughters or from a family member or somebody in the church.
He got a VIP card for car washes.
Now he thought that that VIP car for car washes was that there was an unlimited amount of money on that car.
When he went to the car wash place, there were different car washes that you could get.
And the one was the works and that was they got, they put send in and everything and all they put the smell in it and everything like that.
But he didn't want to get that one because that costs so much and he thought, oh, I don't want to waste all my card.
So I'll just keep getting the exterior, the cheap one, and then I can keep using it.
Late in the year, if I'm not mistaken, it was like November or December, if I remember the story correctly.
He goes in and the owner and the manager was there that day.
He took Dean Miller's card and said, oh, what scent do you want?
And Dean Miller said, well, I'm not sure I got enough money on the card for one of those seven things.
I don't know if there's that much there.
And the manager said, well, you have the VIP card.
You could be getting these every time.
The VIP card has no limit.
You could come in as often as you want and you could get the works every time.
And he said, you telling me that I got all year long and all I just got the outside wash and I could have had the VIP treatment.
Yeah, you could have had the works every time you came in and you could have came in every day this year if you wanted to.
You got the VIP card.
And I remember sitting out there
And I said, oh, Lord, how much of my Christian experience has been on not fully understanding that I am alive in Jesus Christ and that we don't live in the light of what we have in Christ?
Now, I'm excited what pastor's going to show us on January 12th.
I don't even know everything that's going to happen.
And I'm looking forward to the future of our church and the direction that pastor is going to lead us and we're going to get behind it.
But I don't think we should leave 2019 for getting our theme because I think this is one of the most profound spiritual truths in all of our life that we are alive in Christ.
And most of us live like he didn't rise from the tomb.
Most of us struggle with things that we've never seen victory over in our life.
Most of us do not live the victorious Christian life, and we're in the wilderness.
God even miraculously does some things for us.
He brings man unto us, and sometimes he does miracles that our clothes don't wear out or our shoes don't wear out.
God proved himself to the people of Israel, but they weren't where they were supposed to be.
And it gets deceptive sometimes.
Let me ask you, at the end of 2019, are you alive in Christ?
Now, I didn't say were you saved.
You can be a believer and live a defeated life.
The alive in Christ is the key that unlocks our victorious Christian life.
We truly ought to live our lives alive in our risen Savior, Jesus Christ,